>> Steve Kinney: This is theoretically
the basis of what a CSRF attack can be,
which is a post request gets sent.
In this case, like this one's got
a fairly destructive action, right?
And all you have to do is trick
a browser into doing this.
And unlike cross-site scripting,
which we'll see later,
you don't need to inject any code.
You just need to trick the user into
visiting something that you could
fully own the site, right?
And it doesn't have to
be through JavaScript.
Now, luckily, between the stuff we saw
with cookies and some of the additional
things we're gonna talk about next,
you can protect yourself against,
again, yeah there's always a chance
that there's a tiny edge case.
But you can get to that 99% or
possibly 100%, but
you never truly know, kind of coverage
area, through some techniques.
But a lot of times, I think this is one
of those ones where people assume that
this isn't really a thing anymore,
and I don't have to worry about it.
And maybe, right?
But maybe not.
So the way that it kind of
works in a lot of cases,
the GET request is just irresponsible,
right?
Your GET request should never
change anything on the server.
We all know that we either seen or
been party to a time where
we have done that, right?
And it's one of those ones
where someone was, well,
I had to do it like this for
such and such reason, right?
Or someone didn't know better,
it's happened.
The POST request takes
a little bit more work, but
I could fit an example on a slide, right?
Which is you have a page where the display
is not what you can actually do,
opacity zero is probably even better
cuz I think modern browsers might not
load DOM elements that are fully hidden,
but they will load ones that
with an opacity of zero,
which has a whole bunch of consequences.
I'll be curious to see in a few years if
that's still true, but at the time of this
recording, it is so kind of just
either putting a form somewhere,
either in plain sight, honestly, or
with a passive zero, putting in the page,
and then just using JavaScript
to submit it, right?
And there's even like another
nefarious thing called clickjacking,
which we'll see later, where it's,
you don't even need to do that.
But that is effectively the fun, and
because it's a legit request
coming from that browser, right?
Depending on how you have
those cookie attributes set,
that cookie will pass along and
it will be them now.
So messed up when we alluded to
some of the same site stuff that we
talked a little earlier about can
provide a level of protection, but
then there's also ways to on your end,
make sure that you don't.
If for some reason, the cookie still comes
through, for whatever reason, right?
Cuz even what I was saying with Google
like and Chrome and Firefox and
Safari, where cookies by
default are set to Lax.
I have seen people with old
enough computers to know, right?
I think Safari releases are tied to
the version of Mac OS you have and
there's an end of life to Mac OS updates.
I have seen people who still have
that aluminum brush metal chrome.
You know what I'm talking about?
Brush metal Safari, from a really old
version, old browsers exist, right?
And depends on your audience
that might still be a subset.
And ideally you have metrics and locks and
know what your usage is and whether or
not you need to be fully aware, but like
there are still ways that this can happen.
Or you can't use some of those same
side things cause of the architecture
of your app.
And you have a whole bunch of different
domains talking to each other and
it's really hard.
So, there are three ingredients to
the recipe of a CSRF attack sometimes
called sea-surf, which I don't know.
I don't know how I feel about it.
I named an example app after it, but
I haven't really fully committed to it,
which is some kind of relevant action,
right?
Again, this is like the YouTube
user account change.
This is like a tweet.
This is even the email that's,
again, there can be creative ways.
Yeah, they can send it.
Who's gonna send fake email?
Yeah, apparently if they wanna harvest
email addresses plus passwords, they will.
You do need to be using some
amount of cookie-based session
handling cuz theoretically, other
than hiding a form and submitting it,
CSRF architects don't
require any Javascript.
So they don't have to inject
JavaScript on your page,
they just need to call an HTTP
request somehow, some way.
There are ways to do with CSS,
there are ways to do with images,
there are ways to do with JavaScript.
And then no unpredictable parameters.
So that delete account, delete equals one.
There's nothing, there's no entropy
in there, there's no randomness,
there's nothing unpredictable.
Once you've figure out the signature
they attack, you're off to the races.
Now, that third point there is doing a lot
of heavy lifting because guess where
the solution is hiding, and having
unpredictable parameters, spoiler alert.
But those are the three pieces.
So as long as we can take
one of those things out,
you're probably not gonna to be able to
take relevant actions out of your web app.
You can lock down those cookies, right?
And you should, but you know,
I think the one that we're gonna
focus on is that last one there.
Cuz again, for most of these things,
like even if cookies are protecting you,
you should also still have multiple layers
in case something fails you at some point.
Cuz again, a lot of the security
mistakes are mistakes.
Not that you intentionally
left a loophole.
It doesn't really acquire JavaScript and
we'll kind of see that at various points.
They don't need access to your site,
right?
They just need them to go
visit some other site.
You notice that browsers have been doing
a lot more about showing you the lock and
the name of the site in the browser bar.
A lot of times they won't
show you the full path,
cuz a lot of times somebody
would use a pass so
long that it was like
delicious.com/http://paypal.com.
Let's confirm your account, right?
Or something, whereas if you were
not paying attention, right?
Or maybe not as computer savvy,
you might think this is totally,
it looks like the PayPal site or
something along those lines.
Lots of different ways that this can
manifest as we saw, but it can happen.
So how does it work?
The user needs to be logged
in to the target, right?
Cuz that's why they have a valid cookie.
You're not stealing the cookie,
you're just using it in a way
that the user didn't intend.
Then they do need to fall into your trap,
right?
And like not a topic really for
this course, but I think we're all well
aware that a lot of it like phishing
is a lot of his social engineering too.
Many of the worst modern security
exploits have also been like,
I called up customer service and
got to give them information they
shouldn't or something along those lines.
But that's still what we're talking about
with a lot of the tricks to try to pull
out the information about the server,
these are all kind of ways of gaining
some amount of information, right?
And then we do send some HTTP requests
with their cookie from their browser to
the app that is some way not protected and
arguably doing an unauthorized action.